Pavel Petracek is a 3rd year Ph.D. student at the Multi-Robot Systems group at the Dept. of Cybernetics at FEE CTU, where he defended his doctoral thesis proposal and passed the final state exams with honors at the beginning of 2022.
Under the supervision of doc. Martin Saska, Pavel investigates novel methods for improving accuracy and robustness of autonomy suited for mobile robotic platforms with constrained computational resources, such as aerial vehicles or autonomous cars.
His research focuses primarily on detecting and preventing degeneration in perception and 3D localization emerging as an effect of harsh environmental conditions (e.g., dust or fog) and perceptual degradation in geometrically feature-less environments.
But his research interests also touch on novel concepts for decentralized control of aerial teams, particularly the notion of deriving theoretical ideas for swarming under no communication to maximize collective attributes of localization and mapping.

During the initial two years of his doctoral studies, Pavel has displayed excellent capabilities to develop novel theoretical ideas, publish them in established high-impact (Q1-Q2) robotic journals, and transfer them to real-world practice.
He has also shown to be capable of cooperating with top researchers from around the world.
His contributions already pushed state of the art in the field of mobile robotics, as justified by the publication record of 8 journal publications (four as the first author; seven out of the eight were published in Q2 in Robotics or Computer Science) and three co-authored contributions to conference proceedings since 2019, reaching to h-index of 3 in WoS (6 in Google Scholar) and citations count of 27 in WoS (78 in GS with 39 just in 2021).
The quality of his research also supports the internal university database, which in 2021 ranked Pavel 1st among all doctoral students at CTU in the context of the amount of generated research activities.
Among many others, his contributions include novel algorithms for lightweight laser-inertial global-to-local localization tailored to interiors of historical monuments, a fast and robust algorithm for online filtering of dust from raw LiDAR data, and a novel bio-inspired local-information model for swarming aerial robots that are not mutually communicating yet are capable of dynamic aggregation and navigation.

As a core member of the research team accountable for deploying aerial robots in the DARPA Subterranean Challenge, he was responsible for accurate and robust localization and mapping of autonomous UAVs, a module essential for the functionality of the rest of the navigation stack and thus the core for the entire UAV mission.
His contributions helped the team CTU-CRAS-NORLAB win 1M USD in competition prize money and to receive funding of 2M USD for further research in robotic search & rescue, a research area with great potential to save human lives.
His contributions were also directly applied in the Dronument project, where as a technical co-lead of the project led the design of the system for UAV autonomy and supervised that the researched algorithms of localization and mapping provide sufficient accuracy and robustness required in safety-critical real-world deployments of UAVs in historic structures.
The co-developed Dronument UAV system was already used for heritage documentation and restoration of 17 historical objects (incl. Chateau Kromeriz from the UNESCO heritage database).
Both the mentioned projects generated significant public interest abroad and in the Czech Republic, where the research results were documented by the most prominent Czech media (with the main news of Czech TV being just one of many).
